cloud: Add secure-connections-to-serverless-tier-clusters.md (#10909)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/secure-connections-to-serverless-tier-clusters.md

---

> title: Secure connections to Serverless Tier Clusters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Secure Connections to Serverless Tier Clusters
```

summary: Introduce TLS connection in TiDB Serverless Tier clusters.
---

> # Secure connections to Serverless Tier Clusters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Secure Connections to Serverless Tier Clusters
```

> title: Secure connections to Serverless Tier Clusters
> summary: Introduce TLS connection in TiDB Serverless Tier clusters.
> ---
> 
> # Secure connections to Serverless Tier Clusters

Author: ```suggestion
title: Secure Connections to Serverless Tier Clusters
summary: Introduce TLS connection in TiDB Serverless Tier clusters.
---

# Secure Connections to Serverless Tier Clusters
```

This document introduces the core information about TLS in TiDB Serverless Tier.

## Can I disable TLS in TiDB Serverless Tier?

No.

> TiDB Serverless Tier allows only TLS connections and reject non-TLS connections. The reason for this is that users connect to TiDB Serverless Tier clusters through a public network, so communication security is really important.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiDB Serverless Tier allows only TLS connections and rejects non-TLS connections. The reason is that users connect to TiDB Serverless Tier clusters through a public network, so it is really important to use TLS to improve communication security.
```

> TiDB Serverless Tier allows only TLS connections and rejects non-TLS connections. The reason is that users connect to TiDB Serverless Tier clusters through a public network, so it is really important to use TLS to improve communication security.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TiDB Serverless Tier allows only TLS connections and rejects non-TLS connections. The reason is that users connect to TiDB Serverless Tier clusters through a public network, so it is really important to use TLS to ensure communication security.
```

## What TLS versions can I use?

TiDB Serverless Tier only supports TLS 1.2 and TLS 1.3. 

## What certificates do I need？

> TiDB Serverless Tier use certificates from [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) as a Certificate Authority (CA) for TLS connection between clients and TiDB Serverless Tier Clusters. Usually, Let's Encrypt's root certificate ([ISRG Root X1](https://letsencrypt.org/certs/isrgrootx1.pem.txt)) is present in your system's root CA stores. If the client uses the system's root CA stores by default, such as Java and Go, you can easily connect securely to TiDB Serverless Tier clusters without specifying the path of CA roots.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiDB Serverless Tier uses certificates from [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) as a Certificate Authority (CA) for TLS connection between clients and TiDB Serverless Tier clusters. Usually, the root certificate ([ISRG Root X1](https://letsencrypt.org/certs/isrgrootx1.pem.txt)) of Let's Encrypt is present in your system's root CA stores. If the client uses the system's root CA stores by default, such as Java and Go, you can easily connect securely to TiDB Serverless Tier clusters without specifying the path of CA roots.
```

> However, some drivers and ORMs do not use the system root CA stores. In those cases, you should configure CA root path of the drivers or ORMs to your system root CA stores. For example, when you use MySQLdb to connect TiDB Serverless Tier clusters in Python, you should set `ca: /etc/ssl/cert.pem` in ssl configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, some drivers and ORMs do not use the system root CA stores. In those cases, you should configure the CA root path of the drivers or ORMs to your system root CA stores. For example, when you use MySQLdb to connect a TiDB Serverless Tier cluster in Python, you should set `ca: /etc/ssl/cert.pem` in ssl configurations.
```

> However, some drivers and ORMs do not use the system root CA stores. In those cases, you should configure the CA root path of the drivers or ORMs to your system root CA stores. For example, when you use MySQLdb to connect a TiDB Serverless Tier cluster in Python, you should set `ca: /etc/ssl/cert.pem` in ssl configurations.

Author: ```suggestion
However, some drivers and ORMs do not use the system root CA stores. In those cases, you need to configure the CA root path of the drivers or ORMs to your system root CA stores. For example, when you use [mysqlclient](https://github.com/PyMySQL/mysqlclient) to connect a TiDB Serverless Tier cluster in Python on macOS, you need to set `ca: /etc/ssl/cert.pem` in the `ssl` argument.
```

> **Note:**
> 
> TiDB Serverless Tier does not provide a CA root certificate download, because we don't guarantee that the same CA will be used to issue a certificate in the future, which will cause the CA root certificate to change. 

> > While, TiDB Serverless Tier promise to always use the CA root certificate that is normally available, which is provided in all common systems. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> While, TiDB Serverless Tier can always use the CA root certificate that is normally available, which is provided in all common systems. 
```

> > TiDB Serverless Tier does not provide a CA root certificate download, because we don't guarantee that the same CA will be used to issue a certificate in the future, which will cause the CA root certificate to change. 
> > While, TiDB Serverless Tier promise to always use the CA root certificate that is normally available, which is provided in all common systems. 

Author: ```suggestion
> TiDB Serverless Tier does not provide a CA root certificate download, because we don't guarantee that the same CA will be used to issue a certificate in the future, which will cause the CA root certificate to change. While, TiDB Serverless Tier promises always to use the CA root certificate that is normally available, which is provided in all common systems. 
```

> > While, TiDB Serverless Tier can always use the CA root certificate that is normally available, which is provided in all common systems. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> However, TiDB Serverless Tier promises always using a CA root certificate that is commonly available, which is provided in all common systems. 
```

> 

> > If you really need the CA certificate of TiDB Serverless Clusters, we recommend that you download the [Mozilla CA Certificate bundle](https://curl.se/docs/caextract.html) instead of a single CA certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> If you really need the CA certificate of a TiDB Serverless Tier cluster, it is recommended that you download the [Mozilla CA Certificate bundle](https://curl.se/docs/caextract.html) instead of a single CA certificate.
```

> ## How do I connect to TiDB Serverless Tier clusters in TLS connection?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How do I connect to a TiDB Serverless Tier cluster in TLS connection?
```

> TiDB Cloud provides some connection examples in the **Connect** tab. You can follow the instructions in [Connect via standard connection](/tidb-cloud/connect-to-tidb-cluster.md#connect-via-standard-connection) to connect to TiDB Serverless Tier clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiDB Cloud provides some connection examples in the **Connect** tab. You can follow the instructions in [Connect via standard connection](/tidb-cloud/connect-to-tidb-cluster.md#connect-via-standard-connection) to connect to a TiDB Serverless Tier cluster.
```

> Generally, enable TLS and offer a CA root path to authenticate the server. This helps you prevent a man-in-the-middle attack. Different clients have different operations in the TLS connection. Enable TLS and verify the server according to your actual use of the client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Generally, enabling TLS and offering a CA root path to authenticate the server is a good practice to prevent a man-in-the-middle attack. Different clients have different operations in the TLS connection. Enable TLS and verify the server according to your actual use of the client.
```

> The following examples show the connection string in MySQL Client, MyCLI client, Java, Python, Go, and Node.js:

Reviewer 2: change `MySQL Client` to `MySQL CLI client`.

<SimpleTab>
<div label="MySQL Client">

MySQL Client attempts to establish TLS connection by default. When you connect to TiDB Serverless Tier clusters, you must set `ssl-mode` and `ssl-ca`.

> - With `--ssl-mode=VERIFY_IDENTITY`, MySQL Client forces to enable TLS and validate TiDB Serverless Tier clusters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- With `--ssl-mode=VERIFY_IDENTITY`, MySQL Client forces to enable TLS and verify the server host name.
```

- Use `--ssl-ca=<CA_root_path>` to set the CA root path in your system.

```shell
mysql --connect-timeout 15 -u <username> -h <host> -P 4000 --ssl-mode=VERIFY_IDENTITY --ssl-ca=<CA_root_path> -D test -p
```

</div>

<div label="MyCLI Client">

> [MyCLI](https://www.mycli.net/) enables TLS automatically with `ssl` flag. You can set `ssl-ca` to enable TLS and validate TiDB serverless Tier clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[MyCLI](https://www.mycli.net/) enables TLS automatically with the `ssl` flag. You can set `ssl-ca` to enable TLS and validate TiDB serverless Tier clusters.
```

```shell
mycli -u <username> -h <host> -P 4000 -D test --ssl-ca=<CA_root_path>
```

</div>

<div label="Java">

We recommend using [MySQL Connector/J 8.0](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/connector-j/8.0/en/) or later versions to connect to TiDB Serverless Tier clusters in Java.

- Set `sslMode` in connection string to enable TLS and validate TiDB Serverless Tier clusters. JDBC trusts system CA root certificates by default, so you do not need to configure certificates.
- With `--ssl-mode=VERIFY_IDENTITY`, JDBC forces to enable TLS and validate TiDB Serverless Tier clusters.

```
jdbc:mysql://<host>:4000/test?user=<username>&password=<your_password>&sslMode=VERIFY_IDENTITY
```

</div>

<div label="Python">

We recommend using [mysqlclient](https://pypi.org/project/mysqlclient/) to connect to TiDB Serverless Tier clusters in Python. 

- Set `ssl.ca` in the connection string to enable TLS and validate TiDB Serverless Tier clusters.
- Use `ssl={"ca": "<CA_root_path>"}` to set the CA root path in your system.

```
host="<host>", user="<username>", password="<your_password>", port=4000, database="test", ssl={"ca": "<CA_root_path>"}
```

</div>

<div label="Go">

> We recommend using the [Go-MySQL-Driver](https://github.com/go-sql-driver/mysql) to connect to TiDB Serverless Tier clusters in Go.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommended to use the [Go-MySQL-Driver](https://github.com/go-sql-driver/mysql) to connect to TiDB Serverless Tier clusters in Go.
```

- Register `tls.Config` in connection to enable TLS and validate TiDB Serverless Tier clusters. Go uses system CA root certificates by default, so you do not need to configure certificates.
- Register `tidb` TLS configuration. Set `ServerName: "<host>"` to verify TiDB Serverless Tier's hostname.

> - If you don't want to register a new TLS configuration, you can just set `tls=true` in connection string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you do not want to register a new TLS configuration, you can just set `tls=true` in the connection string.
```

```
mysql.RegisterTLSConfig("tidb", &tls.Config{
  MinVersion: tls.VersionTLS12,
  ServerName: "<host>",
})

db, err := sql.Open("mysql", "<usename>:<your_password>@tcp(<host>:4000)/test?tls=tidb")
```

</div>

<div label="Node.js">

> We recommend using [mysql2](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mysql2) to connect with TiDB Serverless Tier clusters in Node.js. Node.js use system CA root certificates by default, so we don't need to configure certificates anymore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommended to use [mysql2](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mysql2) to connect with TiDB Serverless Tier clusters in Node.js. Node.js use system CA root certificates by default, so you do not need to configure certificates anymore.
```

- Set `ssl: {"rejectUnauthorized": true}` to validate TiDB Serverless Tier's hostname.

```
host: '<host>', port: 4000,user: '<username>', password: '<your_password>', database: 'test', ssl: {"rejectUnauthorized": true}
```

</div>
</SimpleTab>

## Where is the CA root path in my system?

> The following lists the CA root paths in common platforms.

Reviewer 3: Do we need to provide the root cert for users who's os do not contains our root cert

Reviewer 2: It's mentioned in the preview sections. You could download the CA cert from Let's Encrypt or CA bundle from Mozilla.

**MacOS**

```
/etc/ssl/cert.pem
```

**Debian / Ubuntu / Arch**
```
/etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt
```

> **RedHat / Fedora / CentOS / Mageia / Vercel / Netlify**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**RedHat / Fedora / CentOS / Mageia**
```

```
/etc/pki/tls/certs/ca-bundle.crt
```

**Alpine**

```
/etc/ssl/cert.pem
```

**OpenSUSE**

```
/etc/ssl/ca-bundle.pem
```

## Can TiDB Serverless Tier verify the client's identity?

No.

> Now, TiDB Serverless Tier uses one-way TLS authentication, which means only the client uses the public certificate pair to validate the server while the server does not validate the client. For example, when you use MySQL Client, you cannot configure `--ssl-cert` or `--ssl-key` in connection strings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, TiDB Serverless Tier uses one-way TLS authentication, which means only the client uses the public certificate pair to validate the server while the server does not validate the client. For example, when you use MySQL Client, you cannot configure `--ssl-cert` or `--ssl-key` in connection strings.
```

- Set `enabledTLSProtocols=TLSv1.2,TLSv1.3` to restrict the versions of TLS protocol.

</div>

<div label="Python">

[Mysqlclient](https://pypi.org/project/mysqlclient/)'s TLS connection configurations are used here as an example.

```
host="<host>", user="<username>", password="<your_password>", port=4000, database="test", ssl_mode="VERIFY_IDENTITY", ssl={"ca": "<CA_root_path>"}
```

- Set `ssl_mode="VERIFY_IDENTITY"` enable TLS and validate TiDB Serverless Tier clusters.
- Set `ssl={"ca": "<CA_root_path>"}` to set the CA root path on your system.

</div>

<div label="Go">

[Go-MySQL-Driver](https://github.com/go-sql-driver/mysql)'s TLS connection configurations are used here as an example.

```
mysql.RegisterTLSConfig("tidb", &tls.Config{
  MinVersion: tls.VersionTLS12,
  ServerName: "<host>",
})

db, err := sql.Open("mysql", "<usename>:<your_password>@tcp(<host>:4000)/test?tls=tidb")
```

- Register `tls.Config` in connection to enable TLS and validate TiDB Serverless Tier clusters. Go-MySQL-Driver uses system CA root certificates by default, so you do not need to configure certificates.

> - Set `MinVersion: tls.VersionTLS12,` to restrict the versions of TLS protocol.

Author: ```suggestion
- Set `MinVersion: tls.VersionTLS12` to restrict the versions of TLS protocol.
```

- Set `ServerName: "<host>"` to verify TiDB Serverless Tier's hostname.
- If you do not want to register a new TLS configuration, you can just set `tls=true` in the connection string.

</div>

<div label="Node.js">

[Mysql2](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mysql2)'s TLS connection configurations are used here as an example.

```
host: '<host>', port: 4000,user: '<username>', password: '<your_password>', database: 'test', ssl: {minVersion: 'TLSv1.2', rejectUnauthorized: true}
```

- Set `ssl: {minVersion: 'TLSv1.2'}` to restrict the versions of TLS protocol. 
- Set `ssl: {rejectUnauthorized: true}` to validate TiDB Serverless Tier clusters. Mysql2 uses system CA root certificates by default, so you do not need to configure certificates.

</div>
</SimpleTab>

## Where is the CA root path on my system?

The following lists the CA root paths on common platforms.

> **MacOS**
> 
> ```
> /etc/ssl/cert.pem
> ```
> 
> **Debian / Ubuntu / Arch**
> ```
> /etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt
> ```
> 
> **RedHat / Fedora / CentOS / Mageia**
> 
> ```
> /etc/pki/tls/certs/ca-bundle.crt
> ```
> 
> **Alpine**
> 
> ```
> /etc/ssl/cert.pem
> ```
> 
> **OpenSUSE**
> 
> ```
> /etc/ssl/ca-bundle.pem
> ```

Reviewer 4: ````suggestion
<SimpleTab>

<div label="macOS">

```
/etc/ssl/cert.pem
```

</div>

<div label="Debian / Ubuntu / Arch">

```
/etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt
```

</div>

<div label="RedHat / Fedora / CentOS / Mageia">

```
/etc/pki/tls/certs/ca-bundle.crt
```

</div>

<div label="Alpine">

```
/etc/ssl/cert.pem
```

</div>

<div label="OpenSUSE">

```
/etc/ssl/ca-bundle.pem
```

</div>
````

- If you do not want to register a new TLS configuration, you can just set `tls=true` in the connection string.

</div>

<div label="Node.js">

[Mysql2](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mysql2)'s TLS connection configurations are used here as an example.

```
host: '<host>', port: 4000,user: '<username>', password: '<your_password>', database: 'test', ssl: {minVersion: 'TLSv1.2', rejectUnauthorized: true}
```

- Set `ssl: {minVersion: 'TLSv1.2'}` to restrict the versions of TLS protocol. 
- Set `ssl: {rejectUnauthorized: true}` to validate TiDB Serverless Tier clusters. Mysql2 uses system CA root certificates by default, so you do not need to configure certificates.

</div>
</SimpleTab>

## Where is the CA root path on my system?

The following lists the CA root paths on common platforms.

<SimpleTab>

<div label="macOS">

```
/etc/ssl/cert.pem
```

</div>

<div label="Debian / Ubuntu / Arch">

```
/etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt
```

</div>

<div label="RedHat / Fedora / CentOS / Mageia">

```
/etc/pki/tls/certs/ca-bundle.crt
```

</div>

<div label="Alpine">

```
/etc/ssl/cert.pem
```

</div>

<div label="OpenSUSE">

```
/etc/ssl/ca-bundle.pem
```

> </div>

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
</div>

</SimpleTab>
```

## What certificates do I need？

TiDB Serverless Tier uses certificates from [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) as a Certificate Authority (CA) for TLS connection between clients and TiDB Serverless Tier clusters. Usually, the root certificate ([ISRG Root X1](https://letsencrypt.org/certs/isrgrootx1.pem.txt)) of Let's Encrypt is present in your system's root CA stores. If the client uses the system's root CA stores by default, such as Java and Go, you can easily connect securely to TiDB Serverless Tier clusters without specifying the path of CA roots.

However, some drivers and ORMs do not use the system root CA stores. In those cases, you need to configure the CA root path of the drivers or ORMs to your system root CA stores. For example, when you use [mysqlclient](https://github.com/PyMySQL/mysqlclient) to connect a TiDB Serverless Tier cluster in Python on macOS, you need to set `ca: /etc/ssl/cert.pem` in the `ssl` argument.

> **Note:**
> 
> TiDB Serverless Tier does not provide a CA root certificate download, because we don't guarantee that the same CA will be used to issue a certificate in the future, which will cause the CA root certificate to change. 
>

> > However, TiDB Serverless Tier promises always using a CA root certificate that is commonly available, which is provided in all common systems. 

Reviewer: Be cautious about using "promises" in the user docs because we could not promise the future. Is there any way to avoid this word in this sentece?

Reviewer 2: I think change to ensure.

> > However, TiDB Serverless Tier promises always using a CA root certificate that is commonly available, which is provided in all common systems. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> However, TiDB Serverless Tier ensures always using a CA root certificate that is commonly available, which is provided in all common systems. 
```

> 

> > If you really need the CA certificate of a TiDB Serverless Tier cluster, it is recommended that you download the [Mozilla CA Certificate bundle](https://curl.se/docs/caextract.html) instead of the single CA certificate in case we change the CA in the future.

Reviewer: Question: After users download Mozilla CA certificates, which path shall they save the certificates in? Is there a required path, like system root CA stores?

Author: Mozilla CA certificates are just like a common file. You can save it everywhere on your PC. And when you use it to connect to TiDB Serverless tier clusters, you can specify the ca-path to Mozilla CA certificates that you downloaded.

TiDB Cloud provides some connection examples in the **Connect** dialog. You can follow the instructions in [Connect via standard connection](/tidb-cloud/connect-to-tidb-cluster.md#connect-via-standard-connection) to connect to a TiDB Serverless Tier cluster.

Generally, enabling TLS and offering a CA root path to authenticate the server is a good practice to prevent a man-in-the-middle attack. Different clients have different operations in the TLS connection. Enable TLS and verify the server according to your actual use of the client.

The following examples show the connection string in MySQL CLI client, MyCLI client, Java, Python, Go, and Node.js:

<SimpleTab>
<div label="MySQL CLI client">

MySQL CLI client attempts to establish TLS connection by default. When you connect to TiDB Serverless Tier clusters, you should set `ssl-mode` and `ssl-ca`.

```shell
mysql --connect-timeout 15 -u <username> -h <host> -P 4000 --ssl-mode=VERIFY_IDENTITY --ssl-ca=<CA_root_path> -D test -p
```

- With `--ssl-mode=VERIFY_IDENTITY`, MySQL CLI client forces to enable TLS and validate TiDB Serverless Tier clusters.
- Use `--ssl-ca=<CA_root_path>` to set the CA root path on your system.

</div>

> <div label="MyCLI Client">

Author: ```suggestion
<div label="MyCLI client">
```

```

- Register `tls.Config` in connection to enable TLS and validate TiDB Serverless Tier clusters. Go-MySQL-Driver uses system CA root certificates by default, so you do not need to configure certificates.
- Set `MinVersion: tls.VersionTLS12` to restrict the versions of TLS protocol.
- Set `ServerName: "<host>"` to verify TiDB Serverless Tier's hostname.
- If you do not want to register a new TLS configuration, you can just set `tls=true` in the connection string.

</div>

<div label="Node.js">

[Mysql2](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mysql2)'s TLS connection configurations are used here as an example.

```
host: '<host>', port: 4000,user: '<username>', password: '<your_password>', database: 'test', ssl: {minVersion: 'TLSv1.2', rejectUnauthorized: true}
```

- Set `ssl: {minVersion: 'TLSv1.2'}` to restrict the versions of TLS protocol. 
- Set `ssl: {rejectUnauthorized: true}` to validate TiDB Serverless Tier clusters. Mysql2 uses system CA root certificates by default, so you do not need to configure certificates.

</div>
</SimpleTab>

## Where is the CA root path on my system?

The following lists the CA root paths on common platforms.

> <SimpleTab>

Reviewer: The PDF of the content will look like this, which is hard to tell the platform information. 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/79440533/198171510-4d2ef770-c44f-4171-a262-b78f76ee496b.png)

Could we use a list instead of a simple tab for this case? 

For example:
- macOS: `/etc/ssl/cert.pem`
- Debian, Ubuntu, or Arch: `/etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt`

Reviewer 4: I thought we're going to remove PDF for cloud docs. If this is not going to happen very soon, i can remove simple tabs

- Use `--ssl-ca=<CA_root_path>` to set the CA root path on your system.

</div>

<div label="MyCLI Client">

[MyCLI](https://www.mycli.net/) automatically enables TLS when using TLS related parameters. When you connect to TiDB Serverless Tier clusters, you need to set `ssl-ca` and `ssl-verify-server-cert`.

```shell
mycli -u <username> -h <host> -P 4000 -D test --ssl-ca=<CA_root_path> --ssl-verify-server-cert
```

- Use `--ssl-ca=<CA_root_path>` to set the CA root path on your system.
- With `--ssl-verify-server-cert` to validate TiDB Serverless Tier clusters' hostname.

</div>

<div label="Java">

[MySQL Connector/J](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/connector-j/8.0/en/)'s TLS connection configurations are used here as an example.

```
jdbc:mysql://<host>:4000/test?user=<username>&password=<your_password>&sslMode=VERIFY_IDENTITY&enabledTLSProtocols=TLSv1.2,TLSv1.3
```

- Set `sslMode=VERIFY_IDENTITY` to enable TLS and validate TiDB Serverless Tier clusters. JDBC trusts system CA root certificates by default, so you do not need to configure certificates.
- Set `enabledTLSProtocols=TLSv1.2,TLSv1.3` to restrict the versions of TLS protocol.

</div>

<div label="Python">

> [Mysqlclient](https://pypi.org/project/mysqlclient/)'s TLS connection configurations are used here as an example.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[mysqlclient](https://pypi.org/project/mysqlclient/)'s TLS connection configurations are used here as an example.
```
